feat(launch-week-5): day 5 — Langfuse MCP, expanded (#2988)
langfuse/langfuse-docs: content/changelog/2026-05-22-mcp-update.mdx

Reviewer: rename file to 2026-05-26-....md

---

> date: 2026-05-22

Reviewer: fix date to today

> title: "Our biggest MCP update yet"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Langfuse MCP v2.0: Access All Data"
```

description: "The hosted Langfuse MCP server now includes new tools for working with observations, metrics, scores, datasets, comments, and annotation queues from AI agents."
author: Ben
---

import { ChangelogHeader } from "@/components/changelog/ChangelogHeader";

<ChangelogHeader />

> With this update, Langfuse project data becomes directly available in MCP-compatible workflows. Agents can inspect observations, query metrics, manage scores, work with datasets, create comments, and operate on annotation queues without switching tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, most Langfuse project data is available in the Langfuse MCP server. We expose all public API routes over MCP. Therefore, your agent of choice can: access observations, query metrics, manage scores, work with datasets, create comments, operate on annotation queues and more.

For a full tool list, check [the docs](INSERT LINK HERE) or see the newly added tools below.
```

This opens up new workflows for using Langfuse in agentic development. For example, an agent can investigate a production issue, pull the relevant observation details, compare metrics, create or update scores, add comments for the team, or prepare dataset items for regression testing.

> The goal is to make Langfuse data actionable where teams already work with AI agents: in IDEs, automation workflows, and custom internal tools. Instead of copying data between systems, agents can use Langfuse as shared context for debugging, evaluation, and continuous improvement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to make Langfuse data actionable where teams already work with AI agents outside of coding agents. In, for example, custom internal tools you can directly integrate Langfuse in full capabilities to enrich context for debugging, evaluation, and continuous improvement.
```

> This complements the [Langfuse CLI](/changelog/2026-02-17-langfuse-cli), which remains a good fit for terminal workflows, CI scripts, and direct access to the full Langfuse API. The hosted MCP server is optimized for MCP-compatible agents that benefit from structured tool discovery, typed inputs, and no local CLI setup. Together, they give teams two ways to make Langfuse available to agents: a command-line interface for shell-native automation and an MCP interface for agent-native workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This complements the [Langfuse CLI](/docs/api-and-data-platform/features/cli), which remains the recommended way to access Langfuse project data from CLI agents (or any agent which has access to a sandbox). This is because the CLI allows agents to pre-filter for only relevant data, thus saving context.
The hosted MCP server is best for tools which cannot use/install CLI tools, such as Claude Desktop, Linear Agents and so on. If you don't want those tools to have write access to your data, please allow-list only the read tool equivalents, see the [docs here](INSERT LINK).
```

## Added tools

> 

Reviewer: Insert callout here: If you want the MCP server to only have read-only access, please allow-list only a subset of tools, see [the docs here](insert link).

The MCP server still access the tools via the public API, thus every MCP consumer must obtain a valid API key.

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="p-4">
        <strong>Annotation queue items</strong>
        <div className="mt-2 flex flex-wrap gap-x-3 gap-y-2 leading-4">
          <code>listAnnotationQueueItems</code>
          <code>getAnnotationQueueItem</code>
          <code>createAnnotationQueueItem</code>
          <code>updateAnnotationQueueItem</code>
          <code>deleteAnnotationQueueItem</code>
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="p-4">
        <strong>Annotation queue assignments</strong>
        <div className="mt-2 flex flex-wrap gap-x-3 gap-y-2 leading-4">
          <code>createAnnotationQueueAssignment</code>
          <code>deleteAnnotationQueueAssignment</code>
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="p-4">
        <strong>Media</strong>
        <div className="mt-2 flex flex-wrap gap-x-3 gap-y-2 leading-4">
          <code>getMedia</code>
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td className="p-4">
        <strong>Health</strong>
        <div className="mt-2 flex flex-wrap gap-x-3 gap-y-2 leading-4">
          <code>getHealth</code>
        </div>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>

> </table>

Reviewer: i would only list the high level items here: observations, metrics, ... not all individual tools. the tools can be seen from the reference more easily.

<Callout type="info">
View the full MCP tool list, input schemas, and setup snippets in our [MCP Reference](https://mcp.reference.langfuse.com).

> </Callout>

Reviewer: pull further up
